# QB64-Lexer-Parser
A lexer and parser for the QB64 project

In December of 2015 I decided I wanted to start work on a new lexer and parser for QB64 since the current lexer and parser were written by hand.  I had no idea that I'd actually get a lexer up and running but now I have high hopes for completing both the lexer and parser.

The lexer is written in Flex and the parser will be written using Bison.  I am drawing heavily from my old Lex and Yacc book from O'Reilly as well as my newer Flex and Bison book.  As things go along I will upload each new version I produce.  At some point, I expect the QB64 group to take over working on it as no one person can know everything about the QB64 language. (By "take over" I don't mean take it away from me but to work with me and direct me how to proceed unless something happens to me and then of course - someone will have to take it over.)

There really isn't a lot to put here since you will learn more by just downloading and trying to use the lexer and parser than by me explaining it all.  Suffice it to say - my first lexer since college so I'm hoping it works really well. :-)

# Contents:

This repsitory has the following items in it:

1. The license.  I have chosen the MIT license with these caveats: A)My name should show up somewhere in the documentation as Mark Manning (markem@sim1.us). B)This lexer is free to download and use however you see fit to use it. C)You may NOT charge for the usage of this lexer/parser in any way, shape, or form other than a modest fee for whatever medium you put it on and if you mail it to someone via US Mail, UPS, FedEx, or whatever - whatever you are charged to mail it. D)You may NOT use my name or QN64's name in anything other than your program and/or documentation without the prior written consent of the party involved. (So no advertising allowed of my name and you have to find out from the QB64 people if you can use their product and/or name.) E)You CAN make money using QB64 according to their license.  This product will fall under their license and if QB64's license says anything counter to what I have put here - QB64's license prevails in all cases.  Please note: Section C above means THE LEXER and PARSER and not a program you may have written using the lexer and parser.  I want to be clear on this issue.  I am only talking about what is placed here.  Not QB64's compiler, nor the output from the compiler.  I am saying you can not charge for this lexer and parser.
2. BAS.L.  This is the actual lexer.  All of he commands to make the lexer work are stored in BAS.L.
3. BAS.Y.  This is the actual parser.  Presently it is empty but all of the YACC commands will go in there to make everything work.
4. CMDS.PHP. This is the PHP program that generates all of the BAS.L commands.  I wrote this because it is simpler to have PHP generate the lexer commands than it is to do it by hand.  After we get a bit farther - this program will no longer be used but for now it is useful.
5. LEX.YY.C. This is the C code that is generated by Flex when you run it against BAS.L.
6. out.dat. This is my output file I use to capture output from Flex or Bison or GCC or when I'm running tests of the program.  It is basically a catch-all file.
7. T.BAT. This is the batch file used to compile both the lexer and parser and then to compile those two into a single program.  It then runs the program against the text program (TEST.BAS).
8. TEST.BAS. This is the test basic program that is run against the lexer and parser.
9. UPDATES.DAT. This is a simple update file which is updated each time I change the lexer or parser.
10. Y.TAB.H. This is the include file for the lexer and parser.
